---
layout: post
title: "Hello Github"
date: 2016-09-29
categories:
  - Process
  - Personal
description: 
image: http://i.imgur.com/uzkSaor.jpg
image-sm: https://unsplash.it/500/300?image=1003
---
Hi Github support. If you're here because of my ticket - like most things, it ended up fixing itself. Thank you for rubber ducking though!

I scrapped my previous Github page that showcased my terribly outdated apps for something that's more blog-like (or in this case, literally a blog). Googling 'best blogging platforms' resulted in a lot of clickbait-headlined articles, and then I realized - hey, I'm a developer. Why the hell am I trying to use Squarespace or Wordpress or Blogger, when I can just code my own thing*?! 

So, why am I doing this? I wanted a place to document my process in building a Meteor x React app (and to improve my online presence). Today I was mostly reading about modeling One-to-N relationships in MongoDB. The '6 Rules of Thumb' written by William Zola is very readable and comprehensive on its own, but the tl;dr was: Embed subdocuments when your N is small, and only denormalize when the read:update ratio is favourable because the cost of updating gets more and more expensive. Is my answer acceptable? Do I pass?

What I *have* done for the app so far, however, includes setting up a Trello board, drafting out the directory structure, thinking about the data models, and creating a static, barebones frontend just so I have something to look at and be motivated by. The latest feature I worked on involved installing a Google Maps package (`dburles:meteor-google-maps`) and a Geolocation package (`mdg:geolocation`), with the goal of creating a button component that will either: i) grab the device's current location, or ii) allow the user to input a custom location.

The hardest part of starting a new project is getting over the first hurdle of 'What do I do now?', because with a blank slate you can put anything on it, and it's so hard to choose something appropriate from the pool of anythings. It does become leagues more enjoyable once you can start to see your work come to life and actually function in some elementary manner.

Next step: Adding markers to the map. Then the app will have like, 70% of its purpose complete. Ciao!

*by code, I really mean download someone else's fabulous Jekyll template (this one is called Trophy) and then fill it with my own photo and words. Speaking of photos, the one you see here was taken at the Chihuly exhibit at the Royal Ontario Museum. It's a sculpture of what looks to be sparks or a neural network, kind of like when a new idea sparks to life in your mind, kind of like... this blog.